Company: rsystems


1. What have you done on Argo CD
2. How your microservices were accessed by the end user externally
3. How do you monitor the eks cluster. What are the tools involved
4. Present your screen and write the architecture of your cluster
5. What is helm, how was it used in your project
6. How did you configure grafana and Prometheus for monitoring
7. Write a Jenkins pipeline which should handle multiple environments 
8. My EC2 is full how do you handle this
9. Ppk or pem file is deleted. What is the workaround to connect to the instance get the data
10. What is multiaz in RDS
11. How to migrate onpremise VM to cloud
12. How do you connect on premise VM to cloud

Here’s a detailed overview of each of your new queries:

What have you done on Argo CD?

Argo CD is a declarative, GitOps continuous delivery tool for Kubernetes. Typical tasks may include:

Application Deployment: Using Git repositories as the source of truth for defining the desired application state.
Automated Sync: Configuring Argo CD to automatically synchronize the application state from Git to the Kubernetes cluster.
Monitoring and Rollbacks: Monitoring application status and performing rollbacks if necessary.
Multi-cluster Management: Managing deployments across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
How were your microservices accessed by the end user externally?

Ingress Controllers: Using Kubernetes Ingress controllers like NGINX, Traefik, or AWS ALB Ingress Controller to manage external access to the services.
Load Balancers: Using cloud provider load balancers (e.g., AWS ELB/ALB/NLB) to distribute traffic to the microservices.
API Gateway: Implementing API gateways (e.g., AWS API Gateway) to route, secure, and manage API traffic.
DNS: Configuring DNS services to route user requests to the appropriate load balancers or ingress controllers.
How do you monitor the EKS cluster? What are the tools involved?

Monitoring an EKS cluster typically involves:

Prometheus: Collecting and querying metrics from the Kubernetes cluster.
Grafana: Visualizing metrics collected by Prometheus.
CloudWatch: Using AWS CloudWatch for monitoring AWS resources and custom metrics.
Fluentd/Fluent Bit: Collecting and aggregating logs.
Kubernetes Dashboard: Web-based UI to monitor the Kubernetes cluster.
ELK Stack: Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana for logging and monitoring.
Present your screen and write the architecture of your cluster

Since I can't present a screen, I'll describe a typical architecture:

Master Nodes: Control plane components (API server, scheduler, controller manager).
Worker Nodes: Run applications in pods.
Ingress Controller: Manages external access to services.
Load Balancer: Distributes incoming traffic.
Monitoring Tools: Prometheus, Grafana, CloudWatch.
CI/CD Tools: Jenkins, Argo CD for deployments.
What is Helm, how was it used in your project?

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes, used to streamline the installation and management of Kubernetes applications.

Package Management: Using Helm charts to define, install, and upgrade applications.
Version Control: Managing application versions and rollbacks.
Templates: Using Helm templates to manage Kubernetes manifests dynamically.
Repositories: Storing and sharing Helm charts in repositories.
How did you configure Grafana and Prometheus for monitoring?

Install Prometheus: Using Helm or manual manifests to deploy Prometheus.
Configure Prometheus: Setting up Prometheus with appropriate scrape configs to collect metrics from Kubernetes nodes, pods, and services.
Install Grafana: Using Helm or manual manifests to deploy Grafana.
Integrate Grafana with Prometheus: Adding Prometheus as a data source in Grafana.
Create Dashboards: Building custom dashboards in Grafana to visualize metrics.
Write a Jenkins pipeline which should handle multiple environments

Here’s an example Jenkins pipeline (Declarative Pipeline) that handles multiple environments:

groovy
Copy code
pipeline {
  agent any
  environment {
    DEV_ENV = "development"
    PROD_ENV = "production"
  }
  stages {
    stage('Build') {
      steps {
        echo 'Building...'
        // Add build steps here
      }
    }
    stage('Test') {
      steps {
        echo 'Testing...'
        // Add test steps here
      }
    }
    stage('Deploy to Dev') {
      steps {
        echo "Deploying to ${DEV_ENV} environment..."
        // Add deployment steps for development environment here
      }
    }
    stage('Deploy to Prod') {
      steps {
        input "Deploy to ${PROD_ENV}?"
        echo "Deploying to ${PROD_ENV} environment..."
        // Add deployment steps for production environment here
      }
    }
  }
}
My EC2 is full, how do you handle this?

Expand Volume: Use AWS Console or CLI to increase the size of the EBS volume.
bash
Copy code
aws ec2 modify-volume --volume-id <volume-id> --size <new-size>
Resize Filesystem: Log in to the instance and resize the filesystem.
bash
Copy code
sudo resize2fs /dev/xvdf
Add Additional Volume: Attach a new volume to the instance and mount it.
Clean Up: Remove unnecessary files and data to free up space.
PPK or PEM file is deleted. What is the workaround to connect to the instance and get the data?

EC2 Instance Connect: Use EC2 Instance Connect to access the instance.
Use a Snapshot: Create a snapshot of the EBS volume and attach it to another instance where you have access.
AWS Systems Manager (SSM): Use SSM Session Manager if the instance has the SSM agent installed and IAM role configured.
What is Multi-AZ in RDS?

Multi-AZ (Multiple Availability Zone) in Amazon RDS provides high availability and failover support for DB instances. RDS automatically creates a primary DB instance and synchronously replicates the data to a standby instance in a different Availability Zone.

How to migrate on-premise VM to the cloud?

AWS Server Migration Service (SMS): Use AWS SMS to automate the migration.
VM Import/Export: Use AWS VM Import/Export to import your virtual machine image.
CloudEndure Migration: Use CloudEndure Migration for lift-and-shift migrations.
Manual Method: Export VM disk, upload to S3, and create an AMI.
How do you connect on-premise VM to cloud?

VPN (Virtual Private Network): Set up a VPN connection between the on-premises network and the cloud VPC.
Direct Connect: Use AWS Direct Connect for a dedicated network connection.
Hybrid Cloud Solutions: Use services like AWS Transit Gateway, AWS Outposts, or VMware Cloud on AWS for hybrid cloud connectivity.