explain ci cd pipeline? what are the challenges faced in CI CI pipeline?
explain ebs and efs?
explain branching startegy?
how hotfix branch works with example?
why do you use state file ? how the state file configuration is done? why do you keep state file?
Explain the state locking and why do you use?
explain the componenets of kubernetes?
write a terraform to create a ec2 instance and change the default ip to ellastic ip?
explain the claster architecture
when pod is running when a high traffic comes in anew pod is created how it is created explain?
how do you optimize docker images for size
when a user hit the url? the user is getting navigated to respective pod/container how that flow goes? 
what is kubernetes load balancer
what is init container and when you use that?
How do you check crashloopback error


CI/CD Pipeline
CI/CD Pipeline: Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment/Delivery (CD) pipelines automate the process of building, testing, and deploying code changes, ensuring that software can be released reliably at any time.

Typical Stages in CI/CD Pipeline:

Source Code Management: Integrating with version control systems like Git.
Build: Compiling the code, creating build artifacts.
Test: Running unit tests, integration tests, and other automated tests.
Deploy: Deploying to various environments (dev, staging, prod).
Monitor: Monitoring the application and infrastructure post-deployment.
Challenges in CI/CD Pipeline:

Complexity: Managing and automating the entire pipeline can be complex, especially with microservices.
Environment Parity: Ensuring consistency across different environments (dev, staging, prod).
Test Reliability: Maintaining reliable and fast tests to prevent false positives/negatives.
Security: Integrating security checks and compliance in the pipeline.
Rollback: Implementing effective rollback strategies in case of failures.
Scalability: Ensuring the pipeline can scale with the team and project growth.
EBS and EFS
EBS (Elastic Block Store):

Usage: Provides block-level storage volumes for use with EC2 instances.
Features: Persistent storage, snapshots, various volume types (SSD, HDD), encryption.
Performance: Designed for applications requiring single-instance storage with high throughput and low latency.
EFS (Elastic File System):

Usage: Provides scalable file storage for use with AWS services and on-premises resources.
Features: Fully managed, scalable, POSIX-compliant file system, accessible from multiple EC2 instances.
Performance: Suitable for workloads that require shared file access and throughput.
Branching Strategy
Branching Strategy:

Main Branch: The primary branch where the production-ready code resides.
Feature Branch: Created for new features, isolated from the main branch until complete.
Develop Branch: Integrates changes from feature branches before merging into the main branch.
Release Branch: Used to prepare for a new production release.
Hotfix Branch: Created for urgent fixes that need to be applied to production quickly.
Hotfix Branch Example:

Create Hotfix Branch: From the main branch for a critical bug fix.
sh
Copy code
git checkout -b hotfix/issue-123 main
Fix the Issue: Apply and commit the fix.
sh
Copy code
git commit -m "Fix critical issue #123"
Merge to Main: Merge the hotfix branch back to the main branch.
sh
Copy code
git checkout main
git merge hotfix/issue-123
Deploy: Deploy the updated main branch to production.
Merge to Develop: Ensure the hotfix is also merged into the develop branch.
sh
Copy code
git checkout develop
git merge hotfix/issue-123
Terraform State File
State File:

Usage: Tracks the state of infrastructure managed by Terraform.
Configuration:
hcl
Copy code
terraform {
  backend "s3" {
    bucket = "my-terraform-state"
    key    = "path/to/my/key"
    region = "us-west-2"
  }
}
Purpose: Maintains the mapping of real-world resources to Terraform configuration, enabling consistent management and updates.
State Locking:

Purpose: Prevents concurrent operations from modifying the state file.
Implementation: Typically achieved using a locking mechanism like DynamoDB when using remote state storage.
Kubernetes Components
Kubernetes Components:

Master Node Components:
API Server: Front-end for the Kubernetes control plane.
etcd: Key-value store for cluster data.
Scheduler: Assigns nodes to newly created pods.
Controller Manager: Manages controllers that handle routine tasks.
Worker Node Components:
Kubelet: Ensures containers are running.
Kube-Proxy: Handles networking for the pods.
Container Runtime: Software that runs the containers (e.g., Docker, containerd).
Terraform to Create an EC2 Instance and Assign Elastic IP
hcl
Copy code
provider "aws" {
  region = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-0c55b159cbfafe1f0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
}

resource "aws_eip" "example_eip" {
  instance = aws_instance.example.id
}
Kubernetes Cluster Architecture
Cluster Architecture:

Control Plane: Manages the overall state of the cluster (API server, etcd, scheduler, controller manager).
Worker Nodes: Run the applications (kubelet, kube-proxy, container runtime).
Networking: Uses CNI plugins for pod networking, service networking, and ingress controllers.
High Traffic Pod Scaling
Pod Auto-Scaling:

Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA): Automatically scales the number of pods based on CPU utilization or other select metrics.
Metrics Server: Collects resource metrics from nodes.
HPA Configuration:
yaml
Copy code
apiVersion: autoscaling/v1
kind: HorizontalPodAutoscaler
metadata:
  name: my-app
spec:
  scaleTargetRef:
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    name: my-app
  minReplicas: 1
  maxReplicas: 10
  targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 50
Optimizing Docker Images for Size
Optimizing Docker Images:

Multi-Stage Builds: Separate build and runtime stages to reduce the final image size.
Minimal Base Images: Use smaller base images like alpine.
Remove Unnecessary Files: Delete temporary files and caches during the build process.
User URL Navigation to Pod/Container
Flow:

User Hits URL: User request is sent to a DNS service (e.g., Route 53).
Ingress Controller: Directs the request to the appropriate service within the cluster.
Service: Load balancer distributes the request to one of the pods.
Pod/Container: Processes the request and sends the response back to the user.
Kubernetes Load Balancer
Kubernetes Load Balancer:

Type: LoadBalancer service type automatically provisions an external load balancer.
Function: Distributes incoming traffic to the pods in a service.
Init Container
Init Container:

Purpose: Runs before the main application container starts.
Use Case: Used for tasks like setting up environment variables, configuration, or dependencies that need to be completed before the application starts.
Checking CrashLoopBackOff Error
Troubleshooting CrashLoopBackOff:

Check Pod Status: kubectl get pods
Describe Pod: kubectl describe pod <pod-name>
Logs: kubectl logs <pod-name>
Events: kubectl get events
Configuration: Verify YAML/Helm chart configurations for issues.